docs/node: Document ParaTime observer node (#1190)
oasisprotocol/docs: docs/node/run-your-node/paratime-observer-node.mdx

### Stake Requirements

To be able to register as a ParaTime observer node on the Oasis Network, you need to have enough tokens staked in your
entity's escrow account.

Current minimum staking requirements for a specific ParaTime are listed on the [Stake Requirements] page. You can also
use [Oasis CLI tools] to check that as described in [Common Staking Info].

Finally, to stake the tokens and to check if you staked correctly, you can use any wallet and any explorer. If using
our [Oasis CLI tools] and if everything was set up correctly, you should see something like below when running
[`oasis account show`] command for your entity's account (this is an example for Testnet):

![code shell](../../../external/cli/examples/account/show-delegations.in.static)

![code](../../../external/cli/examples/account/show-delegations.out.static)

:::caution

The stake requirements may differ from ParaTime to ParaTime and are subject to change in the future.

Currently, for example, if you want to register an observer node for Testnet/Mainnet, you currently need to have at
least **200 TEST/ROSE** tokens delegated:
- **100 TEST/ROSE** for registering a new node entity and,

> - **100 TEST/ROSE** for gaining an observer role.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **100 TEST/ROSE** for each observer node.
```
To make it obvious that for each node you need 100 TEST. We should also change the wording on https://docs.oasis.io/node/run-your-node/prerequisites/stake-requirements/#stake-requirements-by-a-specific-role-of-the-node to make it obvious you need so much for each node.

Author: Updated.

For the _Stake Requirements_ I think it it is already clear since it says that _Registration of node_ in singular.

[Oasis CLI tools]: ../../general/manage-tokens/cli/account.md#delegate
[`oasis account show`]: ../../general/manage-tokens/cli/account.md#show

### Register a New Entity or Update Your Entity Registration

:::danger

Everything in this section should be done on the `localhost` as there are sensitive items that will be created.

:::

:::danger

If you plan to run an observer node for Mainnet and Testnet make sure you create and use two separate entities to
prevent replay attacks.

:::

1. If you don't have an entity yet, create a new one by following the [Initialize Entity] instructions for validators.

2. If you will be running the ParaTime on a new Oasis node, also initialize a new node by following the
   [Starting the Oasis Node] instructions for validators.

3. Now, [list your node ID] in the entity descriptor file `nodes` field.

4. [Register] the updated entity descriptor.

5. By adding the created entity ID in the node config file, you will [configure the node] to automatically register for
   the roles it has enabled (i.e. observer role) via the `registration.entity_id` configuration flag. No manual node
   registration is necessary.

   ```yaml

>    # ... sections not relevant are omitted ...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   mode: client
   # ... sections not relevant are omitted ...
```
Lets make it obvious that this has the mode is still `client`.

Author: Refactored.

import DocCard from '@theme/DocCard';
import {findSidebarItem} from '@site/src/sidebarUtils';

# ParaTime Observer Node

:::info

> These instructions are for setting up a _ParaTime observer_ node, which observes ParaTime activity and can issue

Reviewer: Why not describe it by referring to client node ("is a special client node that supports confidential smart contact queries.").

Author: Sure, updated.

> These instructions are for setting up a _ParaTime observer_ node, which observes ParaTime activity and can issue

Reviewer: Furthermore, I feel we have too many of these alert boxes that can just confuse newcomers. It would be better to list all types of nodes with short descriptions on a parent page, and then say "If this is not the type of node you are looking for, check other types of nodes <link-to-page>."

Author: All node types are already listed on the parent page: https://docs.oasis.io/node/run-your-node/.
I feel the same about alert boxes, but changing the style just here won't help much. We should change this everywhere because alert boxes are even more present on pages for other node types. Moreover, they are often seen in other parts of the docs, so a decision to reduce them would affect other pages too.

queries that can access confidential data. If you just want to run a _ParaTime client_ node, see the
[instructions for running a ParaTime client node](paratime-client-node.mdx). If you want to run a _ParaTime_ node
instead, see the [instructions for running a ParaTime node](paratime-node.mdx). Similarly, if you want to run a
_validator_ or a _non-validator_ node instead, see the [instructions for running a validator node](validator-node.mdx)
or [instructions for running a non-validator node](non-validator-node.mdx).

:::

:::tip

> The observer node role allows any ParaTime client node with Intel SGX support to run confidential transactions and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The observer node role allows any ParaTime client node with appropriate TEE support to run confidential transactions and
```

Author: Improved.

> The observer node role allows any ParaTime client node with appropriate TEE support to run confidential transactions

Reviewer: This is reads incorrectly as if any client node with TEE (e.g. Emerald client node with TEE), can run confidential queries in Sapphire.

It is also missing the information that some ParaTimes require that the entity used by observer nodes is whitelisted.

From the requirements perspective the most important things that they need a machine with TEE support and register an entity.

I believe this alert box could be merged into the first paragraph in a concise manner pointing out only what is important.

Author: I have rephrased this and merged it into the paragraph below.

and view calls on Sapphire ParaTime. Observer nodes are client nodes that are registered on chain so that their
eligibility can be enforced by an on-chain policy (e.g. key manager committees can grant them permissions).

:::

This guide will cover setting up your ParaTime observer node for the Oasis Network. Observer nodes are ParaTime
client nodes that support confidential queries without being elected into the compute committee. This guide assumes
some basic knowledge on the use of command line tools.

## Prerequisites

Before following this guide, make sure you've followed the [Prerequisites](prerequisites),
[Run a Non-validator Node](non-validator-node.mdx), and [Run a ParaTime client Node](paratime-client-node.mdx)

> sections and have a working ParaTime client node with Intel SGX support.

Reviewer: Link to how to set up the TEE environment. It is better to refer with TEE instead of SGX, because once other TEE solutions become trustworthy we might add support for them too.

Author: Linked and replaced Intel SGX with a more general "TEE".

### Stake Requirements

To be able to register as a ParaTime observer node on the Oasis Network, you need to have enough tokens staked in your
entity's escrow account.

Current minimum staking requirements for a specific ParaTime are listed on the [Stake Requirements] page. Should you
want to check the staking requirements for other node roles and registered ParaTimes manually, use the Oasis CLI tools

> as described in [Common Staking Info].

Reviewer: This paragraph is way too long with way too little information, especially the second part could just be condensed into e.g. "(or check them with Oasis CLI <link>)".

Author: Yes, I've shortened it.

> Finally, to stake the tokens, use our [Oasis CLI tools]. If everything was set up correctly, you should see something

Reviewer: One can use any wallet for staking and they can check if they staked correctly in any wallet and also any explorer. Too many to list instructions for all...

Author: Good point! I've mentioned that and then wrote what the expected result is when using our tools.

like below when running [`oasis account show`] command for your entity's account (this is an example for Testnet):

![code shell](../../../external/cli/examples/account/show-delegations.in.static)

![code](../../../external/cli/examples/account/show-delegations.out.static)

:::caution

The stake requirements may differ from ParaTime to ParaTime and are subject to change in the future.

:::

:::info

> For example, if you want to register an observer node for Testnet/Mainnet, you currently need to have at least

Reviewer: Move these current requirements with the notice that they are subject to change in the future above.

Author: Moved up.

> For example, if want to register an observer node for Testnet/Mainnet currently need to self-delegate **200 TEST/ROSE**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, if want to register an observer node for Testnet/Mainnet currently need to have at least **200 TEST/ROSE** delegated
```

Author: Applied.

:::

:::danger

If you plan to run an observer node for Mainnet and Testnet make sure you create and use two separate entities
to prevent replay attacks.

:::

1. If you don't have an entity yet, create a new one by following the [Initialize Entity] instructions for validators.

2. If you will be running the ParaTime on a new Oasis node, also initialize a new node by following the
   [Starting the Oasis Node] instructions for validators.

3. Now, [list your node ID] in the entity descriptor file `nodes` field.

4. [Register] the updated entity descriptor.

5. By adding the created entity ID in the node config file, you will [configure the node] to automatically register for
   the roles it has enabled (i.e. observer role) via the `registration.entity_id` configuration flag. No manual node
   registration is necessary.

   ```yaml
   # ... sections not relevant are omitted ...
   registration:
     entity_id: {{ entity_id }}
   ```

6. Once the registration is complete, please share the Entity IDs with us so that we can whitelist them accordingly.

:::tip

In the future, the whitelisting process may no longer be required.

> :::

Reviewer 2: This actually depends on the paratime so I would omit this or mention that there may be per-paratime on-chain policy requirements for running observer nodes.

Author: Got it, updated the tip to mention that there may be per-runtime on-chain policy requirements.

> There may be per-ParaTime on-chain policy requirements for running observer nodes.

Reviewer: Such as whitelisting.

This should be moved up, because it is actually important they they check any requirements before they start following the instructions here.

Author: Improved and moved up.

[Initialize Entity]: validator-node.mdx#initialize-entity
[Starting the Oasis Node]: validator-node.mdx#starting-the-oasis-node
[list your node ID]: validator-node.mdx#add-your-node-id-to-the-entity-descriptor
[Register]: validator-node.mdx#entity-registration
[`oasis account withdraw`]: ../../general/manage-tokens/cli/account.md#withdraw
[configure the node]: paratime-node.mdx#configuration

## (Re)starting the Oasis Node

You can (re)start the node by running the following command:

```bash
oasis-node --config /node/etc/config.yml
```

> After one epoch the node should register as observer (after it has been whitelisted).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After one epoch the node should register as observer (assuming it satisfies per-paratime policy requirements).
```

Author: Changed.
